>> Scott moss: We just finished
doing rag for movie search, and
that turned out really cool.
It worked very well.
You can think about different
strategies for evaluating that, and
you should be evaluating that.
And note that evaluating rag is
probably the most difficult part
of an agent to evaluate, in my opinion.
So, good luck.
[LAUGH] And then, yeah,
these are some rack-as-a-service
search-type things that
I was talking about.
So now we're gonna move on to something
else that's also pretty cool and
important in its own right,
and that's structured outputs.
We've kind of been using some version
of structured outputs already for
our tool calling.
If you noticed that when we call a tool or
we make a tool definition,
we provide a schema for,
that's not a good one, here we go.
We provide a schema for, when AI says,
I wanna call this function,
AI must adhere to this schema so
we can get those arguments so
we can actually run our
function deterministically.
So that's kind of a structured output.
But the final result that the AI
returns right now is the string.
It's a content string.
We could actually have the AI return
an object and whatever schema we want,
and at least in OpenAI's example,
it's guaranteed to be that shape.
And that's because they fine-tune
the model to always return a JSON
in the schema that you want, and
that's called a structured output.
So you can get back
deterministic shapes of data.
The values, you still got to tune that.
You still got to eval that, but
the shape will always be the same.
That way you can write deterministic
code against that shape.
So for the most part,
that's actually true.
There are sometimes where it's not,
but even when it's not,
it'll tell you when it's not,
it'll refuse to do it.
Okay, so benefits of structured outputs.
Guaranteed valid response
formats that match your schema.
No missing required field, so if you have
some system that's expecting some required
field from this LLM, you'll get that field
every time depending on the model you use.
But in OpenAI's example,
you should be getting it.
You don't have those
parsing errors anymore.
Before structured outputs, what you would
do is, you would still have a schema, and
you would put it in the system,
prompting, can you please
return your data in this shape?
And the AI might do it,
it might not do it.
So you would try to parse it.
You would try cache that parse.
If it failed, you would run it again.
You would try to cache that parse.
If it failed, you run it again up until
it failed on however many attempts you
wanted it to fail and
you just gave up on it.
But that's essentially kinda what
Lengcheng did before structured
outputs in JSON mode, which was like,
hey, just give us a Zod schema,
we'll throw it in the system prompt and
we'll keep trying to parse the output
until it matches that schema,
up until a failure amount.
But now you don't have to.
It'll give you back that shape every
single time if you're using one of
the OpenAI's models that supports it,
which is really cool.
So, obviously, that allows for
better error handling.
You can just check whether or
not this thing came back in
the shape that you wanted.
Edge cases are more predictable,
things like that.
Obviously, development is so
much easier because, imagine writing
code with a schema-less database where you
can just throw whatever you want in it.
That would be terrible.
That's essentially what an LLM is.
So now [LAUGH] you don't have that.
You have something that spits out,
something that has a shape.
So how does that look?
Very similar to what you're doing now.
You make a schema.
The root has to always be an object
from what I've discovered.
If it's not an object,
it's not gonna work.
And the reason that is,
is because it turns into this,
which essentially has to be an object.
This is how you would do it with
the raw API, but we have Zod.
Python uses something called
pedantic models or whatever.
We use Zod here in TypeScript JavaScript.
So in this case, I can define a schema,
I can say it has to have a title.
Some categories,
which are an array of strings.
Confidence is a number.
Suggestions, which is an array of objects.
And there are limits to this.
I forgot what the depth limit is,
but it's pretty high.
You can look at the docs, but there's
a depth limit of how nested you can go.
Zod supports default values,
you can't do that cuz you don't need to.
You can just do the default value
in yourself after you get it back.
You can't do formatting.
Zod supports coercion,
coercing something to another value.
For instance,
if I want this to be a number,
like I want a number between 0 and
1, I couldn't do that here.
I could do with Zod, but
OpenAI won't support it.
I could say it has to be
greater than 0 but less than 1.
That's the number that I want.
You can't support that
on the schema level.
I could put that in a prompt and
be like, make sure this is a number
between 0 and 1 and try to eval that.
But yeah, for that example,
I actually just go 0 to 100 and
I just do the math myself and
convert it to a decimal.
So some things you can't do, but for
the most part, it works pretty well.
Yeah, I mean, there really isn't much
to cover here other than make a schema.
[LAUGH] What does your app need,
make sure your schema follows that design.
So start with whatever your
app is trying to consume,
what functions you're trying to use,
and create a schema for that.
There is a case where you
might have a model refusal.
And let me go look up exactly why
the model might refuse that before,
I don't know what I'm talking about.
Let me see, structured outputs,
>> Scott moss: Refusal.
Refusal, I think if it's a safety thing
with moderation or something like that.
Yeah, it might occasionally refuse to
fulfill the request for safety reasons.
So since the refusal does not
necessarily follow the schema you have
supplied in the format, the API response
will include a new field called
refusal to indicate that the model
refused to fulfill the request.
So what that would look like is
you would get back something like,
let me get rid of this,
you get back something like this.
The output would be .refusal,
and it refused for,
whatever reason it decided to not do it,
it will refuse it.
Most of the time I get this for moderation
stuff, like, I'm not saying that,
or I'm not gonna do that,
so it'll refuse it.
So you really got to look for
those two things.
You look for the refusal, or
now you can get back the parsed argument.
Before we would get back the message, but
now we get back this parse thing, and
that's because we're using
a different completion.
We're doing openai.beta,
whereas before we were doing openai.chat.
It's openai.beta.chat.completion.parse,
which is also different.
So this right here allows us to
do those structured outputs.
I've heard from some people,
I haven't measured this,
that structured outputs lower
the quality of the responses, and
that the quality is better if you
don't have structured outputs.
I myself haven't tested it.
For my application,
I'm gonna use structured outputs, and
I'll tell you my use case.
But there are alternatives to this,
like the one that I told you about,
just looping over with
the schema yourself, using XML.
There's other ways to do it, but
I like the structured outputs.
Let's talk about some of the examples
you might use structured outputs for.
So for my app, we use structured
outputs for generative UI.
So we have a chat app.
Depending on the tool that was called or
the question that you asked,
instead of rendering a chat bubble,
we might render a component, right?
So you can think of this as, if you had
a chat app and you asked what the weather
was, it could just respond back in
a chat bubble, like here's the weather.
Or it can show you a weather component
that looks nice and is interactive.
Okay, structured outputs allow
me to do that because when I
say I can give the AI a list of enums, and
each enum is a type of component
that my front end knows about.
So it knows about a weather component,
it knows about this component,
knows about this component, and
each one of those enums is a schema
object that has parameters on them.
So for the weather component, it must
have the city, the temperature outside,
whatever.
And then, once my friend sees that object,
there's an if statement, so
we're in JSS, it's like,
is this component type weather?
Cool, show the weather component,
not a chat bubble, right?
So you're basically allowing your AI to
determine what UI to show your users,
right?
So you can do that on a component level,
which I think is really cool.
You could even go a little lower, and
I think OpenAI has an example of it.
Let's see.
>> Scott moss: You can go even lower level
and,
>> Scott moss: They're not gonna show me
the sample of it, where you can just
give the AI a list of atom component.
So here is a title, here is a bar chart,
here is a column,
[LAUGH] here is a button.
And then it will compose the UI for
you, and
then it'll give you
a list of those things.
And then you would build a renderer
on your front end that loops
through that list and
renders out and make a component on
the fly based off the little
components that the AI set to render.
So you're literally generating
a UI on the fly, and
the AI is determining what's
the best layout for those things.
It can get really powerful if you can
train an AI to do that very well, but
we moved it a level above.
It was like, let's just give it a list
of big components versus a list of these
smaller atomic components so we can have
some sort of consistency in our app,
because we don't wanna train
this thing to always do that.
And at that point, you might as well
just say, always show this component.
But you can get pretty
interesting with that.
The other thing is structured
output can be recursive, so
I'm not sure if they have
an example of recursion in here.
There you go.
So you can have recursive properties
in here, which is extremely powerful.
So I think in this example with, yeah,
they're literally doing
what I was describing.
They have enums for divs, buttons,
headers, sections, fields and
forms, and they can all be nested
inside of each other, right?
So in this case, you have an array here,
and where is that?
There it is, here it is.
So items right here,
this is basically saying,
the children of this
entity here can be itself.
It's referencing itself.
That's what this is saying.
So it's recursive.
So that way you can have divs and divs,
a button and a div, it's just like HTML.
So, and then the AI will generate
you a DOM tree that you can then
just render on your app.
Which is crazy to think about,
but actually quite powerful.
So they had a blog post
that I wanted to show you.
Yeah, here it is.
So look, they have generative UI
that generates this landing page.
And you can see, this is what it
will look like, here's the schema or
the output for it.
Here's the output that the system put
out that you can see it had a children's
array, type was header.
It had children, its type was div,
its label was Green Thumb Gardening.
Here's the attributes to put on it,
[LAUGH] like, what class to put on it.
Kinda crazy.
So it's literally generating something
that someone is transforming to React
in this case cuz it has class names,
I'm guessing they're using React, but
this could be anything.
This could be whatever you want it to
render to whatever system you have.
So that one was pretty cool.
A sign up screen.
So this thing generates a sign up screen.
So if you start thinking
about it this way,
you can have a different
UI depending on some logic.
So if this AI had a system prompts
that knew everything about the user,
their preferences, what device they were
on, all this stuff, it could generate
a UI specific for that person to
do something that it needs, right?
So it might make a different
sign up screen for
a different type of person on the fly.
It's pretty powerful.